# DH Project Review: Solidarity! Revolutionary Center and Radical Library (Archive.org)

### Introduction
[Solidarity! Revolutionary Center and Radical Library] (https://archive.org/details/solidarityrevolutionarycenter) (hereafter Solidarity!) is an archive of short magazines, known as *zines*.  Zines are traditionally created independently and are meant to inform the reader on topics which are not generally covered in dominant culture or mass media. Solidarity!'s focus on discussions and issues in LGBTQ communities is initially what sparked my interest in the project; excluding what I have learned in the classroom here at the College, my exposure to issues such as identity expression and transvisibility was miniscule and my understanding abysmal. Luckily, Solidarity! is a free, easily accessible archive of zines that hope to increase awareness on issues individuals may not have even heard of. While the Solidarity! project was not explicitly given the title of a 'digital humanities project,' I will make a case for why it is by evaluating the archive using the same criteria we established in class to determine the efficacy of digital humanities projects.  

### Concept & Content  
As far as our list of evaluative criteria goes, concept and content is where it becomes difficult (for me at least) to cleanly match the criteria to this specific project. Because zines are created by many and are based mostly in expression of thoughts, feelings, and beliefs not primarily with concrete evidence and empirical data, it is hard to say that every zine in Solidarity! is useful for data or if the text inside of the zines (if any) aims to prove a thesis. However, one of the primary objectives of zines is to increase exposure to less-known topics, so by extension one could argue that each zine aims to educate in qualitative ways. Dr. Frank Farmer, a professor of English, makes a similar claim about zines in an interview about the Solidarity! project. He notes, "maybe we can think about as public documents, [...] 'counter-public' documents, I think. But public nonetheless in that they affirm particular values in perspectives that we ordinarily see in ordinarily see in mainstream discourse" -[Farmer] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OGxFwr4rCfQ). When evaluated in qualitative conditions zines do provide arguments of sorts, I am just not sure if the zines in the Solidarity! collections focus as much on quantitative or empirically verifiable arguments.

### Design & Technique  
Unlike the concept and content list of criteria, the design and technique is much easier to see and understand in zines. Because zines are very much makeshift/DIY, they do not stand up well to the test of time. This is the reason Solidarity as decided to archive and digitize their zines. Not only does ensure the longevity of these zines, it also increases its accesibility. Rather than having to scour bookstores or trade with friends, Solidarity! has created a place for these documents to live and last.  

### Collaboration & Documentation  
Due to the fact that a fair amount of zines are created individually, zines are not *necessarily* collaborative endeavors. However, in practice the communities that form around zines do place a high importance on collaboration. Being that zines detail the accounts of smaller communities, it makes sense that they zine communities are close-knit and often feature other zine-rs to collaborate and edit for their own zines. So while zines are individualistic, theoretically speaking, in practice they are not necessarily insular.  
In terms of documentation, Solidarity! does give credit to the orginial creators of zines and in some cases even as far as other works by specific "publishers"/zine-rs. While zines are inherently more casual and less regulated than larger, mainstream publications, there is still a level of professionalism that exists at this ultra-local level of publishing.
###  Conclusion  
All in all, Solidarity!, while not explicitly a digital humanities project, is a good application of digital humanities. It documents and preserves zines in a way that cannot be done physically for as long as they can on the internet, and the ease at which individuals can access the project is remarkable. However, the project is not without its shortcomings. First, its scope is limited. Even with the freeflow of information on the internet, Solidarity! will fail to reach a mainstream status. While this preserves the essence of a zine-- that is, its local, personal nature-- it hinders its objective in spreading awareness about the topics the zines are written on. But, the inclusion of almost 1,000 zines in just one archive is a step in the right direction in spreading awareness. I hope to see the relevance of zines continue to grow over the years and I hope to see more projects like Solidarity! emerge to provide a narrative on something I may have never even heard of.
